One last thought, and then we pull
this train into the station, and
we are done with how do
you maintain sadness.
So the most junior engineer on my team,
I don't know what happened,
but for some reason,
her prettier configuration,
her editor was formatting files different
than what our build process was doing.
And so all of her PRs failed the, we gotta
fix the department of working remotely is
you can't be like, hand me your computer,
let me figure out what's going on.
Cuz like, pair programming on what your
editor plugin is formatting your code,
with, impossible.
But it occurred to me, that's not her
problem, that was a me problem, right?
I have a process that clearly if your
editor wasn't configured magically
everyone on my team else had their
editors configured the same way, or for
a junior engineer who just doesn't
know that you set these things,
she couldn't have a PR
that could be merged.
And then we had this comedy of errors
where I tried to be a good mentor, and
I was, actually,
I'm a bad mentor in this story.
I was like, I will push a commit where
I fix the formatting to make prettier
satisfied cuz my thing does it right,
and I will just run prettier--write and
solve everything.
And the problem is again, working
remotely, I was like, I'll just do this,
I'm in the middle of a meeting.
I hope none of my team, cool, they know
I don't pay attention to meetings,
my actual co-workers, if they make it
this far in the course, I'm in trouble.
I would push a commit but
she didn't know that I pushed the commit,
then she would push the commit, but
her editor would re-break everything.
But she thought because there was
a change that it fixed everything, and
then we would go from green to red,
to green to red, to green to red.
What would be great is
if something was willing
to tell me in advance if life is okay,
right?
And this was a tool that I use while back
I will tell you like the escape hatch bit
me, but we'll talk about this.
So I'll just install it in this repo,
we'll find out what happens.
There's this tool called Husky, and
it's got some friends that we'll
talk about in a second as well.
In this, you should probably, npx does
not install things, npm install husky.
Husky takes advantage of a feature in Git,
which is there are Git hooks, right,
which are functions that are called,
and they are written in Bash,
and I don't as we saw me
trying to kill a port.
There was a time that I knew Bash, it was
15 years ago and you see that I still use
the GitHub UI cuz I don't choose to live
on the command line when I can avoid it.
Have I thought about building
an electron app that spins up my stuff?
I have.
These are my problems.
Husky, and then you have to do Husky
install, so npx husky install.
One thing you can,
if you wanna script that automatically,
the prepare script in npm, there
are certain ones that run automatically,
it used to be post install would
automatically run post install,
pre install would run pre install.
There's pretest and post test so
you could like yeah,
there's stuff you can do,
we have real build tools now.
Prepare will actually run this
after you do a npm install so
the new people will automatically
get these hooks as well.
And it's very unassuming,
all you say is husky Git hooks installed,
and
that's pretty great, but
one of the things we
can do is we could do
something like npm husky add,
I think I'm doing this in
memory unknown command.
We can tell we're at the end of the day
because I can't remember npx versus npm.
Look, it created pre commit.
Cool, let's go ahead and
take a look at that.
We'll just do pre commit.
Presently, it is undefined, right?
Things that I could choose to do here and
there's a bunch of other hooks,
I'll leave it as exercise
to the reader here.
I could do an npm run test, right?
Now when you go to commit,
it will run the tests.
Somewhat problematic because like,
maybe sometimes
I wanna commit cuz,
you might all be better than me.
And this is why I suppose like where I'm
a charlatan, I have stashed things in Git
before, I've
never unstaffed anything, in a world where
the default action is squash and commit.
My good hygiene is abysmal.
And so you,
running a test is somewhat problematic and
like sometimes I just need to commit some
things and push it up cuz I'm worried
that my computer will be stolen, and
I just want them in the cloud, right?
I don't necessarily, I know the tests
are failing leave me alone, so
you could do something like that
thing that I it's in the notes but
I didn't actually talk about you
could do an npx vitest changed.
Which will either be
the currently unstaged stuff or
you got to do a comparison
to another commit.
We're only running the test files for
stuff that has changed since
the last commit, right.
So that gives you a much smaller set of
tests rather than writing the whole suite.
That will work, you could,
to complete our story here, you do npm,
and maybe this is npm run format, but
just to be super clear, npx prettier
--write or whatever, right?
And so now, as you go to commit, prettier
runs before the commit happens and
then adds those changes as well and
then the commit takes place, right?
So now I don't have to worry
about Grace's editor being set
up the way my editor is set up
because the actual code base
will do it itself and
stay self-hygienic in that sense.
The other two things that I
will just kind of bring to your
attention is there's also
a tool called npx lint staged.
This does the very simple thing as it
takes the files that are about to go into
commit, and
then passes them to other commands.
So you might write a file and
it might be called like a linter,
I think it's .lintstagedrc,
and it's a JSON file.
I was just was just a JSON I will just
kind of type one out.
And what you can do with lint staged, you
have some file which I could explain it
to you, but it'll become incredibly
clear what it does momentarily.
TS or js files do
It's a JSON, so
I gotta do a double quotes,
Right, and it will only pass the files
that changed in there, right?
I can do npm run format, I could do
Those get passed in as arguments, if it is
like a markdown like that'll only be for
this case ts and js files or
TSX yeah, whatever.
Markdown files, I can do like I have
a script that renders those to HTML,
and like so we can like push
them up to the docs, whatever.
It will basically take whatever the stage
files you're about to commit are, and
it will run them through whatever
scripts that you want, and
it's a way to combine with husky.
Now you're not running the entire
code base through these commands,
you're only running the files
that changed, right?
One of the things I did that
you shouldn't do anymore,
was back when I had Jenkins and it was in
2017, is we had this abysmal code base,
this is the one I think
I referred to earlier.
It was a Rails and CoffeeScript and jQuery
app, that then they ripped out the some or
most of the CoffeeScript and
jQuery, and placed it with React,
but it was their first React app, and
anytime they didn't understand anything,
they pulled out jQuery and
just went for it.
And then they removed
the Rails app from underneath.
Needless to say,
there was no linting or tests.
And so the rule that I had was we ran,
if you touched a file,
you had to fix it, even if you
were just doing a minor change,
and I bring this up for
an important reason.
And what I found out later was I was
sprint planning and my manager, everyone
was complaining we didn't get anything
done because every file they touched,
they had to do a bunch of lint fixes for,
but everyone was touching the same files.
And he was like, do you want to
have a meeting about lint rules?
I'm like, never, right?
And my rule for lint rules is pick either
the recommended or the Airbnb or whatever,
just pick one and go for it.
I don't wanna talk about this unless
it's my opinions on how prettier should
be set up.
If you ever need to get
out of any of these,
you do git commit whatever --no verify.
And I found out that the intern knew about
that, and the intern was doing it, and
then everyone learned from the intern
that you could skip all the checks.
And then everyone started doing it, so
I was like who has done --no-verify this
week and everyone raised their hands, I'm
like, so the person you hate is at this
table, [LAUGH] it's all of you,
you're all guilty.
But you can run the lint staged stuff and
there's some other tools I'll just bring
to your attention,
we'll put links in the recording version.
There's a tool called Danger which
can kind of hook up and stuff,
which we'll enforced, did you put
a long enough body on your git commit?
There's ways to take some of the process,
I don't actually use that many of them.
The one of formatting stuff, totally.
The one, we have thought because we
have an open source code base and
we seek to auto generate release notes.
We have discussed if we wanna be
the people who have to make it,
they do chore colon on
a git commit versus fix so
that we can better process release notes
because presently I write them [LAUGH].
For a practical reason, but it like one
I will warn you with all these tools and
why I will not separate
on them too much is,
can they automatically prepare your
file so you don't break the build?
Absolutely.
It is too easy to be, I'm gonna have a lot
of rules instead of error code based
better, you will turn them off and
everyone will hate you,
probably not other orders, everyone will
hate you and then you will turn them off.